Terms and Conditions for the use of the Netwide Assembler
=========================================================

Can I have the gist without reading the legalese?
-------------------------------------------------

Basically, NASM is free. You can't charge for it. You can copy it as
much as you like. You can incorporate it, or bits of it, into other
free programs if you want. (But we want to know about it if you do,
and we want to be mentioned in the credits.) We may well allow you
to incorporate it into commercial software too, but we'll probably
demand some money for it, and we'll certainly demand to be given
credit. And in extreme cases (although I can't immediately think of
a reason we might actually want to do this) we may refuse to let you
do it at all.

NASM LICENCE AGREEMENT
======================

By "the Software" this licence refers to the complete contents of
the NASM archive, excluding this licence document itself, and
excluding the contents of the `test' directory. The Netwide
Disassembler, NDISASM, is specifically included under this licence.

I. The Software is freely redistributable; anyone may copy the
Software, or parts of the Software, and give away as many copies as
they like to anyone, as long as this licence document is kept with
the Software. Charging a fee for the Software is prohibited,
although a fee may be charged for the act of transferring a copy,
and you can offer warranty protection and charge a fee for that.

II. The Software, or parts thereof, may be incorporated into other
freely redistributable software (by which we mean software that may
be obtained free of charge) without requiring permission from the
authors, as long as due credit is given to the authors of the
Software in the resulting work, as long as the authors are informed
of this action, and as long as those parts of the Software that are
used remain under this licence.

III. The Software, or parts thereof, may be incorporated into other
software which is not freely redistributable (i.e. software for
which a fee is charged), as long as permission is granted from the
authors of the Software. The authors reserve the right to grant this
permission only for a fee, which may at our option take the form of
royalty payments. The authors also reserve the right to refuse to
grant permission if they deem it necessary.

IV. You may not copy, modify or distribute the Software except under
the terms given in this licence document. You may not sublicense the
Software or in any way place it under any other licence than this
one. Since you have not signed this licence, you are not of course
required to accept it; however, no other licence applies to the
Software, and nothing else grants you any permission to copy,
modify, sublicense or distribute the Software in any way. These
actions are therefore prohibited if you do not accept this licence.

V. There is no warranty for the Software, to the extent permitted by
applicable law. The authors provide the Software "as is" without
warranty of any kind, either expressed or implied, including but not
limited to the implied warranties of merchantability and fitness for
a particular purpose. The entire risk as to the quality and
performance of the Software is with you. Should the Software prove
defective, you assume the cost of all necessary servicing, repair or
correction.

VI. In no event, unless required by applicable law or agreed to in
writing, will any of the authors be liable to you for damages,
including any general, special, incidental or consequential damages,
arising out of the use or the inability to use the Software,
including but not limited to loss of data or data being rendered
inaccurate or a failure of the Software to operate with any other
programs, even if you have been advised of the possibility of such
damages.

END OF LICENCE AGREEMENT
